CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing Guide

**Would you like to help us find missing projects? Read our guidelines on: [How to Identify Open Source Projects in Sustainability and Climate.](https://github.com/protontypes/open-sustainable-technology/blob/main/docs/how_to_identify_projects.md)**

## Fast Lane
If you just want to give a hint about a missing project, send an email at [tobias.augspurger@protontypes.eu](mailto:tobias.augspurger@protontypes.eu). However, we would be pleased to add you to the list of official contributors via a pull request. 

## Guideline
> _It is a miracle that our planet has developed a unique and stable environment for life in an otherwise indifferent and hostile cosmos. Life has taken billions of years to build up the natural resources we depend on, such as a protective atmosphere, fertile soil, stable weather, and clean drinking water. As a movement to democratize technological development and knowledge creation, open source has the potential to play a central part in preserving this stability. Open Sustainable Technology's mission is to find, list, and share projects that preserve or analyze natural ecosystems through open technology, methods, data, intelligence, knowledge or tools._

## Contributors 
<a href="https://github.com/protontypes/open-sustainable-technology/graphs/contributors">
  <img width="60%" src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=protontypes/open-sustainable-technology" />
</a>

## What Criteria Must a Project Meet to be Listed?
* The project must comply as closely as possible with the [guideline](#guideline).
* The projects must be actively be used or developed at the time of listing.
* You need to show that others beyond the project's main developers are using the project. Good indicators are issues or pull requests from external users.
* Your project should be structured and documented in such a way that it can be reused and extended by others.
* If possible, the Git Link of the projects should be used for listing since this allows meta data analysis of the project. Thus, the project can become part of the data analysis and recurring report. 
* Larger parts of the project are published under an [open source license](https://choosealicense.com/).

## Contribute to the List  
* Create a fork of this project.
* Add your project in the following format:              
 ``- [Project Name](Project URL) - A sentence that describes your project and what makes it different from others.``        
* If available, use the Git link to the central repository of your project. This makes it easier for developers and maintainers to review the project faster.    
* Create a pull request and wait for the reaction of the maintainer. 

More details on how to do pull requests can be found in the official GitHub [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request).

## The Project Does Not Yet Meet the Criteria, What Now?
If your project doesn't meet the community, documentation, or usage criteria because it's in its early stages, don't hesitate to create a pull request. We will label the pull request "Under Observation" so that we can review it later. If you wish, we can use our social media channels to help you find contributing communities and users. 

## Post new entries on social media
To simply follow new project that have been reviewed successfully, the commit message of the merge will be posted on our [Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/@opensustaintech) and [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/opensustaintech.bsky.social) channel. To trigger the posting via GitHub Action, the reviewer of the project needs to add a short sentence describing your project and the full URL of your repository to the description of the merge commit.

Commit message:

Change fastlane (#1322)
* Change fastlane

This is currently an antipattern. We are trying to remove work from @ly0n, not add more. Opening an issue is better.

* Add note on Discord

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing Guide

**Would you like to help us find missing projects? Read our guidelines on: [How to Identify Open Source Projects in Sustainability and Climate.](https://github.com/protontypes/open-sustainable-technology/blob/main/docs/how_to_identify_projects.md)**

## Fast Lane
If you just want to give a hint about a missing project, [open an issue here](https://github.com/protontypes/open-sustainable-technology/issues/new) and just mention it. However, we would be pleased to add you to the list of official contributors via a pull request.

You can also ask about any potential projects or additions on [our Discord](https://discord.gg/BTYjRSvUBB).

## Guideline
> _It is a miracle that our planet has developed a unique and stable environment for life in an otherwise indifferent and hostile cosmos. Life has taken billions of years to build up the natural resources we depend on, such as a protective atmosphere, fertile soil, stable weather, and clean drinking water. As a movement to democratize technological development and knowledge creation, open source has the potential to play a central part in preserving this stability. Open Sustainable Technology's mission is to find, list, and share projects that preserve or analyze natural ecosystems through open technology, methods, data, intelligence, knowledge or tools._

## Contributors 
<a href="https://github.com/protontypes/open-sustainable-technology/graphs/contributors">
  <img width="60%" src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=protontypes/open-sustainable-technology" />
</a>

## What Criteria Must a Project Meet to be Listed?
* The project must comply as closely as possible with the [guideline](#guideline).
* The projects must be actively be used or developed at the time of listing.
* You need to show that others beyond the project's main developers are using the project. Good indicators are issues or pull requests from external users.
* Your project should be structured and documented in such a way that it can be reused and extended by others.
* If possible, the Git Link of the projects should be used for listing since this allows meta data analysis of the project. Thus, the project can become part of the data analysis and recurring report. 
* Larger parts of the project are published under an [open source license](https://choosealicense.com/).

## Contribute to the List  
* Create a fork of this project.
* Add your project in the following format:              
 ``- [Project Name](Project URL) - A sentence that describes your project and what makes it different from others.``        
* If available, use the Git link to the central repository of your project. This makes it easier for developers and maintainers to review the project faster.    
* Create a pull request and wait for the reaction of the maintainer. 

More details on how to do pull requests can be found in the official GitHub [documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request).

## The Project Does Not Yet Meet the Criteria, What Now?
If your project doesn't meet the community, documentation, or usage criteria because it's in its early stages, don't hesitate to create a pull request. We will label the pull request "Under Observation" so that we can review it later. If you wish, we can use our social media channels to help you find contributing communities and users. 

## Post new entries on social media
To simply follow new project that have been reviewed successfully, the commit message of the merge will be posted on our [Mastodon](https://mastodon.social/@opensustaintech) and [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/opensustaintech.bsky.social) channel. To trigger the posting via GitHub Action, the reviewer of the project needs to add a short sentence describing your project and the full URL of your repository to the description of the merge commit.
